hey guys this is Mac heads 101 this is a
video on how to set file permissions on
any file through finder first of all you
want to click the file you want to set
the file permissions on and then press
apple I this file info screen will come
up it'll have the info for your file
then you can open up sharing options now
let me explain what file permissions are
they basically say what user is allowed
to do what with this file user can read
read write read execute and right so
what we want to do is uncheck or unlock
this by on by clicking the lock then you
want to login so okay so now I've done
that now you see here or something it
says Mac heads on the one which is my
user and read and write staff can read
only everyone can read only say I don't
want everyone to be able to read this
file what I want to do is take this and
say no access so now everyone won't have
any access I can say read and write so
that everyone can read and write to this
file but I don't want them to so I'll
say no access staff the only options are
read-only and read and write that means
that anyone who works for apple can read
all your files you don't want this
happening you can click staff and then
click the minus button just turn elite
staff mac kids on one you can send read
write and read only I've just made my
user not be able to read it or write to
this file so if I do this and I try to
save it will say this file is locked
that's because I'm not allowed to write
to it i don't have the permissions ok so
what we want to do is click add and this
is to make another user get access to
this file say we want my user Alex
nickel to be able to edit this file to
what you want to do is add and then
select a user
I'll just select Alex nickel so now I'm
sharing this file with Alex nickel I've
said Alex so you can meet only and I'll
first of all set myself to read and
write and I'll set Alex to read and
write so now both me and Alex can edit
file say I want him to only be able to
read ok so now alex is the only only can
read and I can read and write so this is
cool this is how to set file permissions
basically so you've set these file
permissions through terminal you won't
be able to edit this file no way can you
edit this file unless you boot into
single user mode or you know the root
password route I will remind you can
edit any file or access any file or do
anything with any file um so this is
just a way that secure your files it may
be your administrator the network
administrator might be in here if you
work for a company you can just delete
him he doesn't need to read all your
files so um thank you for watching my
kids on on subscribe and give a